I will start the next topic that is types of regulations, so here are the list of types of regulations.
I'll be discussing each of them one by one by taking some examples.
See, the delegations is the first one then had to cushion to recursion in direct regulation and nested
recursion.
So we look at them one by one.
Let us start with a recursion.
Yeah, here is the first recursion.
That is still the question.
We have already seen this type of recursion, this functionality I have explained in the previous video.
Now it is a daily question.
So what does it mean by recursion if a recursive function is calling itself, calling itself and that
recursive call, this is called recursive call and that call is the last statement in a function.
Then it is called delegation after that call, there is nothing it is not performing anything.
So it is called tell the question, for example, this is fun and taking some parameter M and if N is
greater than zero, the similar one I'm writing and there are some statements inside, then the last
thing, as it is calling itself by a reduced value of an.
See what all it has to do with us performing first, then it is calling itself so in this example,
I have just returned from death, but there may be a lot of things afunction may be doing all those
things it has to finish, then it is making a call to itself.
So if a loss a statement, then it is called as dale recursion.
So this means that all these operations will be performed at calling time only and the function will
not be performing any operation at a returning time.
Everything is performed at calling time only.
So that's why it is still recursion.
Now suppose there is something written here plus and means along with the function called some operation
is done.
Then if this is the case, then when this operation will perform, this will be performed at return
time because unless the result of this function is known, it cannot be done.
The value of the function is added it.
And so this operation can be performed only at written in time.
So in this function, there is something remaining that has to be performed at lightning time.
So it cannot be a tail recursion tail recursion means at returning time.
It doesn't have to perform anything at all.
So this is a perfect example of recursion or else if I remove any processing here, then it is the tail
recursion now.
Next I will compare tail recursion with loops now combination of recursion with the loop.
So first and foremost, I have to tell you that every cost function can be done as a loop or vice versa.
Every loop can also be converted in the form of a recursion.
But now let us compare delegation with loop see the A calculation already know the answer in the previous
video.
I'll let you have a trace this one and shown the output.
If we call this function by passing three, so it will print three, two, one and it will stop and
the value of becomes a zero.
So it will print the values three to one and it will print in calling phase now same function.
I want to write it using loop instead of recursion.
So I relied on the function here wide fund which it takes parameter NT and.
And the first thing is and greater than zero, I was right and greater than zero, but instead of if
I will write it as whine that inside this sprinter's statement, this is sprinter's.
But some Tildy and some space and then calling function again itself, but it is a value offense, so
let us do and minus minus that.
So if we call this function by passing value three, then three will be passed here, then it for Spain
three, then it will make two and again repeat so predictable, then repeat one and then repeat it is
zero.
It will stop.
So this will work.
Same as that recursion as it is.
I have converted just instead of conditional statement.
I made it as a loop instead of conditional statement, I made it as a loop and it's a function call
with reduce the value of decrease decreased value of I have just written and minus slyness.
So the function is the same as that one output the same and the structure also if you see it looks more
similar.
That's what.
So the point that I have to tell here is that Dave recursions can be easily converted in the form of
a loop.
Now let us decide who is efficient in terms of time.
If you analyze this is building three values and this will also bring three values.
So the amount of time spent is same, whatever the value of N is given, if it is three, then it is
three four.
This five then is five.
So it means the time taken by both of them is outdraw.
And so time is seen.
So the time taken by both of them is same.
So the time is order of N but let us analyze the space.
This is a recursive function.
It internally utilizes a stack so far the value of a tree.
It will create total for activation records in the stack.
This already we have done the analysis so far n the space taken by this one is.
Order of.
But what about this one?
There's a loop function, so how many activation records will be created?
Only one.
It is not calling itself again, so that space complexity for this one is order of one.
So it will just create only one activation record.
So that is constant.
So we say it is one order of one that is constant.
So there it is.
And here this order of one.
So the conclusion is if you have to write a detailed recursion, then better you convert it into a loop
that is more efficient in terms of space.
But this will not be true for every type of recursion or loop in case of recursion loops.
Efficient.
And even I have to tell one more point that some compilers under code optimization inside the compiler,
they will check.
If you have written any function, which is a detailed recursion, then they will try to convert it
in the form of a loop.
It means they will try to reduce the space consumption and they will utilize only order of one space.
So your function will be converted into object code, just like a loop where the space is reduced.
So that's all about the recursion now.
Next, we will see how the recursion.